I want to make an web based app that is all about learning the names and numbers of the 100 French geographic departments.
It might be good to eventually add other information into this memory game like the names of each departments prefecture, the administrative "region" that it is a part of and maybe even the emblem of the department and some of its history or notable characteristics.
This learning app is going to take the basic form of a game which basically works as follows: the user sees a nice clean outline map of France with all its departments (quite similar to the map featured on the official meteo france 'vigilance' site). When the user starts a round of the game they have a certain time limit (say 2 minutes) to "find" as many departments as they can in that time. The number of the department they have to find currently is shown beside the map and the user has to click on the department that corresponds to that number. If they click the right department they get a "point" and a new department number is shown. Some positive feedback is shown when the correct department is click and this feedback includes the department number, name, prefecture and any other info that the user might be trying to "learn" about each department. The idea is to guess correctly as many departments as possible within in the time limit. If the user clicks a different department than the one shown I don't know if some feedback should be shown e.g. the number and name of the incorrect department to give the user a chance to get to know more about the random guesses they made so maybe next time that number comes up they are more likely to guess the correct one.
I think there could be many different "difficulty" modes of playing... eg one easier mode of playing might give an indication of what direction the correct department is in relation to the one just clicked. I guess for a first implentation I want to try and keep things fairly simple but I wonder if this kind of thing is a good idea.
I would love to integrate all the current and valid "skill learning" and "deliberate practice" research into the gameplay if possible... like I've heard things like "spaced repetition" and other things but I don't know if there would be any way to maximise the "learning" that's going on in each game session... but yeah it would be great if the "learning" was the most efficient possible. I guess probably if I was serious about this I would probably break the game play down into region levels... people can't play the full map of France until they have a attained a good score on each region... this means that in the beginning they might only be learning the 15 or so departments of one region instead of trying to learn the almost 100 departments all in one go. I'm pretty sure I've heard that this kind of method of breaking down the learning problems into really small chunks is much more efficient than trying to do everything at once... anyway I'd be interested to hear your thoughts about this.
Also I'm thinking for an MVP it would be good to try to implement it as a PWA with Svelte, typescript and using the D3 library to do the map rendering. I would love it if you could sketch out the project file structure to just give me an idea of what is involved.
I'm particularly interested in making it work as best as possible when completely offline. That is, if the user has loaded the site initially that they should then be able to play it the next day when they are flying on an international flight with airplane mode. 
In addition to this I would like it to be even more self contained in that, if possible, it contains all the resources as part of the "compiled" app... so they are all sitting on the one server and when one accesses the site it is really only calling to one domain... so I would love it if there was a way that even though I would like to use d3.js, the d3 functions calls are somehow included in the compiled site resources. This would also apply to any map vector resources - I have no problems using a open source map, but I would love to kind of get that map data on to my server so that the site is not sending requests out to many different domains.
Finally I would like to know your thoughts on collating data... I would love to build up as part of the apps resources a beautiful little .json file (or similar) that has my reference data for the game: a list of each department, its number, name, prefecture, a link to the department outline data (I don't know anything about how the map data stuff works), maybe a link to an svg of its emblem and potentially other things in the future. I would love to know your thoughts about how I could get good, proficient and efficient in building up these kinds of resources. So if you know of any great workflows of say if I find a great list of departments on wikipedia - how I can quickly transform that into a useable offline data resource (.json) that is fit for my purposes.
Oh sorry, I'm going to add one more thing: can you give me a kind of overview of the history or meaning behind the french departments numbers and names? Like why is it the way it is now and how did it get to be that way? Do you think its useful to try and know more about these things and can you find any examples of where or why having the kind of skill that the game might develop be useful?
That's a lot sorry, but thanks!!