Ok I've noticed something today... I can easily count numbers forwards and backwards as fast as I want without thinking about it at all, but I can't recite the alphabet backwards very easily at all. Why is that?
Do you think it would be generally useful to have a working reverse knowledge of the alphabet?
In what situations would that be advantageous?
I have also worked out what I want to focus on with the French Department guessing app: I really want to nail down the Benchmark / Baseline testing mode to start with. That way I can start sharing it with people and getting some benchmarks while I'm developing the other game and training modes. I think the basic test should be running through all the department numbers in random order (maybe with just the department number and name shown) and if they make a mistake it maybe just flashes the department they clicked in red (while if they guessed correct the department they clicked flashes in green)... I think I should keep track of the time it takes them to go through all the departments (I just want to do mainland France and Corsica)... and I think it would be good to keep a record of the start timestamp, a time stamp of each guess click, which department they clicked and which department they were meant to click. I think this is the minimum amount of data that would tell me everything I would want to know afterwards, and I think it would be great if there was an email link where they could type in an email address to send the benchmark results to (maybe as attached json? or even just as text in the email I guess would be fine)... it would be great though to boil all this down to one metric that combines the time they took with the number of incorrect guesses to give a total "ranking" that I could easily use to judge their performance against a gold standard. Like if they don't make any wrong guesses but they take 3 hours to do it, that should obviously be ranked differently to if they got 95% in 2 minutes... or should I stick with the rhythm idea and give them a set amount of time to click each department - maybe that's simpler and keeps with my "rhythm" idea. Maybe even with that scheme it wouldn't "poison" the benchmark so much to give them some immediate feedback of the correct deparment location when the time runs out for that department or when they make a wrong guess. I think I like this rhythm guessing idea more as it encourages just making a guess and not hesitating so much. I would be interested to hear what you think though and of course hear your thoughts on how you might think it would be best to implement that.
Finally I was thinking about the "song of the departments" idea and wondering if it might be nice to have each department backed by a note so that when you click the departments in order you make a well known tune... but I thought "what melody do I know that has a tune length of 100 notes"? My first thought was John Coltrane's "Giant Steps" because I figured the solo has a lot notes (easily 100) and you might be able to kind of anchor certain parts of the department song on that if you wanted to say pick it up halfway through... but I thought the notes go way too fast and I don't think it would be easily to click along at that pace... I wonder if you have any ideas of melodies that are rather long but also rather regular that might be good for this? Yeah, I think clicking the departments in order and it making a recognisable melody might be a good idea because if you are going along getting all right guesses you will recognise the tune you are making but if you trip up and click the wrong department you will also really notice the melody being "out of place".