Wim Hof has a video that has a 10 minute guided breathwork meditation.
It features 3 cycles of structured breathing where you are guided to breath to a certain rhythm: 30 breaths in the space of about 2 minutes. At the end of the first cycle you are guided to hold your breath (after exhaling) for 60 seconds and at the end of the following two cycles you are guided to hold your breath again for 90 seconds. 
In another very similar video "shivarasa" guides you with almost exactly the same program and timing with the only difference being that there are 10 minutes of normal breathing meditation after the 10 minute guided program. 
Do you think there is any reason both Wim Hof and Shivarasa reccommend this program? Is the timing and number of breaths significant? Is it drawn from any older tradition? Is there any scientific studies that suggest these are good amounts of breathing and breath holds?
Can breathing, breathholds and meditation like this be beneficial? And if so, how and why?
Shivarasa says while one is holing the breath not to worry because the body is "alkalising" - what could she mean by this?
I have heard that people who hold their breath for long periods professionally (e.g. free divers) use different techniques for achieving long breath holds. Would they reccommend to hold ones breath on the inhale instead of the exhale? I've also heard that CO2 is acidic and this is what builds up in your body when you hold your breath for a long time... so isn't that the opposite of "alkalising"?
Are there any difference in health benefits from using the freediving breathing methods and regularly holding one's breath? What are the different stages called e.g. "breath up" (the preparation period before the breath hold), "breathhold" (the actual holding of the breath). What would free divers reccommend as the optimum breath-up and breathhold pattern to achieve a 5 minute breath hold very comfortably?