I want to make my phone feel more like a book.
More like a book in the way that I can feel good if I have 2 spare minutes I can pull it out and instead of checking instagram I can "read a few pages" and either learn something or have that feeling of progress that I'm "getting through something" and know that all those small little efforts might add up to something.
But here's the twist: I want these "books" to be pieces of music or other "sequences" that I'm learning.
For example... I love the video Jack Stratton made that is a "graphic score" of Marvin Gaye's "Aint no mountain high enough"... I would like to be able to do the following:
Have this video downloaded on my phone somehow so that I don't have to be connected to the internet or maybe I'm on airplane mode.
I open up my "book app" and I can see this video that jumps straight to the part that I'm currently "at"... I can play a small section of this video and kind of "learn it"... the learning might consist of tapping my finger on the screen every time a bass note is played to mark the timestamp of a note.
This data / performance is somehow being recorded so I'm getting a data (json structure?) of timestamps matching to finger taps... I can play the small section back again (or even have it looping) and see some visual indication of where my taps are occuring and maybe even adjust them (or maybe its easier at first to just record them again until I'm happy with the accuracy)... when I'm satisfied that I have "transcribed" a section I can put a bookmark so the next 2 minutes spare I have I can pull out my phone and advance a little bit more.
Maybe there is an option to go over and add information to each finger tap even to say give it a midi note number and then as I play the video back I can see my transcription of the graphic score played back... of course the idea would be that next video I decide to transcribe isn't a graphic score but a song that hasn't got a graphic score transcription made for it... and then by adding up my 2 minute little phone/cigarette breaks I might eventually be able to transcribe a few of my favourite songs.
Then hopefully I might be able to switch this habit around of the feeling like when I have a spare two minutes instead of feeling like I've wasted my time or a social network has "stolen it away from me"... I'm actually creating and building something that gives me pleasure to look back on. (Jack Stratton's graphic score is really pretty to watch and you feel like you are learning something when watching it, or at least understanding a bit how the melody and rhythm is working). 
If you could just give me an overview of an implementation plan of something like this... maybe even with a bit of a timeline. I think I would like to use a technology like Svelte.js and maybe something like capacitor (if that works with svelte?) or someway so that I can rapidly kind of develop it on desktop but as I'm going just very quickly set up an offline prototype on my phone that works well for testing offline.