Ok here's my problem: I feel that music is more accessible than ever before.
I can have a 20GB USB key with so many high quality mp3's on it (How many? Could you work it out?)... like basically I imagine it could be really almost a lifetime's record collection (in the old sense where you had actual physical vinyl records).
And the 20GB USB is really quite affordable, like maybe it might cost $20 or less.
I think there is also very afforadable mp3 playing technology... like I'm sure a simple raspberry pi setup could play all those mp3s and it is also very affordable. 
I guess the only thing that is missing is a nice user interface... because in a traditional scenario, the "user interface" to a record collection would be a massive shelf of vinyl records... one can easily browse them visually and physically and pick out the one that you want in that moment. You can even develop a sense of memory of where you have stored certain records depending on how you organise them.
I wonder, is there anything affordable that exists or how could it be easily created, a digital system that bridges this gap - like it doesn't take the space and weight of a traditional vinyl collection but it still has the "intuitive physical interface" on one.
The great thing about a traditional record collection and turntable is that even a 7 year old could be taught how to effectively use it. 
How could I achieve something similar at a fraction of the price, weight, space and cost?
I was thinking you could rig up some kind of raspberry pi system with some kind of faux player that when you turn it on (maybe there's something that starts spinning) and put on a printed little card with a QR code it will start playing the mp3 file linked with it. I guess this is the trickiest part... how to effectively address one mp3 amongst a large collection - like if you only had one switch as an interface you could enter in a long string of digits like morse code or a kind of telephone number for each record... but is a 7 year old going to remember that and be able to use it?
Well maybe using an old telephone is not such a bad idea and then you can just print little cards that are "faux vinyl sleeves" that have a number on them and if you forget which number the song that you want is, you find the sleve, read out the number and punch it in to the phone line.
Look maybe something like this that's affordable and a bit kid proof already exists in which case you could let me know about it or maybe it's something that could be developed in which case I would love your opinion on which kind of "platform" to start building that on. I guess eventually if it could incorporate some kind of mechanical playback interpretation and signal processing to give a more physical feel to the digital playback (e.g. like Serato control records on a physical turntable) that would be fantastic. I wonder what kind of platform would be best for that eventual development? Is Arduino or Raspberry Pi suited for that kind of thing or are they actually overkill?