A very impressive young jazz pianist named Jahari Stampley has recounted in several interviews how he believes he developed his fluency with the instrument: after early training as a percussionist in Amercian schools, at about the age of 15 (which a lot of people agree seems a late beginning for such a skilled pianist), he came across a youtube video of P. Miller playing a version of Coldplay's Paradise. This was one of Jahari's favourite songs and he thought that P. Miller looked just like himself. The video is focussed almost entirely on Miller's hands showing pretty clearly which keys he is pressing and what times. Jahari watched this video "everyday for 6 months" until he could "recite" the entire piece himself on the piano.
He said he looked at all the keys of a piano keyboard more like the buttons of a gaming console and said to himself "if I can just work out how to press the right buttons in the right sequence at the right time I should be able to play this" - so from the outset he approached learning the piece a bit more like playing a video game (always referring to piano keys as "buttons" instead of keys).
Now Jahari seems very "musically fluent" - able to play and express musical ideas he has quite easily - I would love to have more of this feeling myself, a bit in the same way I can now speak a foreign language fluently and even though I'm not perfect, I am able to make myself understood and explain and communicate anything I feel - I don't feel 'hampered' by my inability. 
So in an effort to develop a similar facility as Jahari with the piano I watched the exact same P Miller video everyday for 6 months, trying for at least 5 minutes a day to play small sections of it or to understand the song as a whole.
Unfortunately after the 6 months I was unable to recite the entire piece precisely as Jahari was and I'm wondering if I approached it in the wrong way?
I have identified a different P Miller video of him playing on the piano a version of a different song which I think I like way better, so I think if I attempt another 6 month experiment I should start with this one instead. I'm trying to imagine a more effective way I can work on this piece to make the whole process feel like something like a crochet project: the kind of project I can just pull out of my bag and work on if I have 5 minutes spare waiting at the bus stop.
I was thinking it might be effective to try and create some kind of software that helps in this regard, like a video playback and annotation app which allows me to effictively break down the 5 minute video into small sections that I can learn, memorise and feel confident that I am making progress. I'm wondering even if it would be worthwhile to invent some kind of notation system that helps me to rehearse and practice even when I don't have access to a keyboard. Like a way to notate or annotate that at the timestamp 12.342 the 3rd finger on the left hand strikes the key A3... I'm imagining if I notate things correctly I can then do a "playback" of the notation (which gets converted to midi events) to "test" and listen to it alongside the actual recording to verify that I have understood that is what's going on (as sometimes the camera cuts or moves in the video and you can't quite see what every finger is doing).
Ideally the annotation software could run on my phone so that when I'm waiting at the busstop I can pull it up and pick up annotating (and 'learning'?) where I left off, much like you can just turn the corner of a book you are reading to quickly pick it back up where you left off.
I would really appreciate your thoughts on all this... thanks!