I would like some help with some ideas I have for an app.
I want it to be an app to help me to learn and advance on personal projects.
These projects usually involve some kind of artistic activity like music, or drawing or even coding.
As opposed to getting side tracked and distracted I want to make a tool that helps me stay focussed and making little bits of "progress" whenever I have a spare moment.
I want to provide an alternative for myself to scrolling on instagram, youtube or social media.
Here is a typical "user story": 
I want to learn to play Philip Glass's "Opening" on the piano.
I have svg files of each of the pages of a score for this piece, but they are unweildy in the sense that I have them on my computer and I really need them on my phone and kind of opening up to where I left of last time so I can make sensible progress.
I would love to use Edwin Gordon's music learning theories as part of this app.
I would love to also integrate the current theories of the benefits of "deliberate practice".
I even figured it might be interesting to try and have some way of "unlocking" the next piece of the "puzzle" by having to demonstrate whatever I learnt last time.
So in this way the app would be promoting active recall and review.
I even thought it would be amazing to somehow set up my phone so that the unlock "phrase" or passcode code somehow be linked to whatever I was trying to learn that day... that way I would be reminded whenever I even wanted to say check the time... that I would have to do a little recall work to get to what I wanted to do. 
I guess I would liken this to setting up a rope climb between my desk and the bathroom: if I wanted a quick toilet break I would be forced to do some healthy movement in order to do it... maybe this is also a little of the principle behind "stand up desks". 
So another scenario would be I have a video of someone playing a piano piece that I want to learn (by ear)... I'm sure if it were as easy as:
1. Pick up my phone and press the "practice" button (or app icon)
2. The video plays straight away from the passage I want to learn today
3. I'm just limited to a very short section (even just a few notes) so the barrier of entry is very low and I know it doesn't have to be much work and hopefully even I'll be wanting to "play it" like a video game... to get to the next level etc.
4. There are controls to easily loop the section, speed up and slow it down and maybe even have it repeat, then leave some silence to allow me to try and play what I've heard and then it plays again.
5. There has to be some way I can sort of "take notes" and annotate the video with what I've learnt or how I'm going to try and remember it or something.
6. I will be able to play back these annotations in time with the video and see where I'm at with my understanding of the piece or solo
Another use case could be I just have an mp3 of the song or passage I want to learn and I should be able to do the same thing.
I really liked Jack Stratton's "graphic score" annotation of the bassline of Marvin Gaye's song (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kAT3aVj-A_E)... I guess this video is really like a summary of what Jack learned studying the bassline... I think he may have played over the bassline to make it stand out in the audio and obviously he's synced it his "moving dot" animation that is based on his understanding or transcription of the bass notes.
So yes, I think "transcription" is a basic goal of the app, but the transcriptions might take a really wide range of formats.
I like the idea of the "motion canvas" library (https://motioncanvas.io/) and probably even more the idea of "animotion" (https://github.com/animotionjs/animotion)... I think these can create presentations with "code" and I think a great little side project might be to create a "graphic score" transcription of another song who's bassline I like but have the animation generated with code like these libraries do. So yeah I don't know what Jack Stratton used to create his animation but I would like to have a tool that I can pick a song, be able to transcribe little sections of the bassline every day... have some way to verify that my transcription is on the right track and then at the end of it I get a full beautiful "graphic score" style animation that I can post on Youtube like Jack did... does that make sense? That might be a good place to start but I want you to understand that I want to keep iterating this idea to hopefully develop tools and or workflows for myself that are even more widely applicable.
I would really like whatever form the app takes that it makes it really easy to work either on my computer or on my phone and also completely offline. (I guess if say I completed some steps of a bassline transcription then there is some really simple file format that is always saved and I can easily export that and put it wherever I need it).
I should say that the projects are usually time based things / media ... and what I want to do is make these medias a bit more like a "book".
What I mean by this is a book is a really simple and already gamified and offline experience: if its handy you can just pick it up whenever you have 5 minutes, read a few pages, dog ear the page you finish on and then pick right back up where you left off the next time. There are no ads injected into it, no distractions that appear in the side bar etc... and you can see your progress through the book as the dog ear moves through it. Even the process of flicking through the pages to get to where your dogear is is a kind of rapid review of everything you previously read. I want to make my phone much more like a book in this sense. In that its really much more under my control: I choose the project and content I want to study and I'm not always exposing myself to a super advanced algorithm that is gamed to engage me and distract me from what I'm meant to be doing.
Can you help me in a first sense about how you think I should frame this project? Like maybe give me an overview about what fully implementing it would involve. And then maybe you could share what you think would be the best way of getting started.
Ideally I could gamify this project in the same way as I want to study my "content"... in that I just start with a really small step and I can somehow then build off this whenever I have a little moment.
Oh I'm going to tell you one more little story: I recently heard that the French "DJ Mehdi" built his own sampler when he was only about 13... this was maybe in the very early 90s when this kind of technology was quite inaccessible (in terms of price for a 13 year old)... I'm a little frustrated that it seems we have the most amazing digital technology at our fingertips at the moment and yet I'm still unable to really harness it in the way that I would like to. Would you agree that "building your own sampler" is more feasible than ever before... but why haven't I been able to do exactly that? Or build similar tools that I really think I need?