How would you suggest I proceed with the following...
I used to have quite a well maintained mp3 collection that was sort of managed by Apple iTunes (going back to the version probably 2008).
I have kind of abandoned this but would like to start building up a "library" again somehow.
This "library" or "record collection" would obviously somehow store the mp3 files in somekind of directory structure, but I also want to have some very extensive and flexible meta data stored along side the mp3 files.
One thing I liked about iTunes collection is that I could add bpm data for example and then I would be able to sort my collection via bpm.
I would love to have even more extensive meta data though that would include things like release year, maybe release month, producer credits, track duration, related tracks, associated artwork.
I would like the creation of the metadata which is basically me finding out interesting things about each track (e.g. like its bpm and musical key, even notes on the song structure and lyrics)... I would like to be able to add this kind of stuff as I add mp3's to the collection and just build it up a track or a few tracks at a time.
I want to be able to work on things in little pieces, like if I just have 10 minutes per day I want to be able to add a new track and some meta data (some research) and then leave it at that... but then I guess come back the next day and be able to see where I'm at with my collection and sort of be proud of the work that I have added in to it.
In a sense I think the "output" of this library is more like a custom little website that shows the current project I'm working on and has a built in player that can play the latest songs I've added and be able to display all the amazing stories I've found out about the song... e.g. a particular song was created by a certain producer who also wrote part of another song (and there's somehow a link or a way to browse easily to info about that song).
All the player and display of info aside though, I want the meta data and even the mp3's to be very portable.
That is, all text meta data and links should be stored in json files, probably one json file per mp3 hmmm I guess if its fairly easy to embed that json metadata into the mp3 file itself that might be ok because I will probably be embedding an artwork file into each mp3...
Say I want to make a "mixtape" for a friend... I just want to be able search for and select a bunch of mp3s and drag them into a folder and then have it work really nice for them when they play them on whatever player they have.
I wonder if it would be wise to adopt some kind of open standard for this kind of organisation?
E.g. do the digital dj platforms like Serato, Tracktor have an open standard for organising mp3 collections? Ideally it would be easy to import the whole library (or parts of it) into one of these players if I ever needed to.
I kind of like the idea of having a bunch of json files (or should it be an Obsidian vault?) that I can easily backup and transfer to a new computer / architecture or whatever - I guess I would like it to be fairly future proof and I've found that flat text files have latest a long time and endured many system changes... I guess I'm envisioning a time when potentially if the mp3 files get lost themselves that I could have a script that could almost automatically rebuild the library by surmising which song is being talked about in each meta data description and going and downloading it or even linking somehow to an id in a fairly robust streaming service (like Youtube music for example). 
Again though I'm pretty stuck on even deciding on a folder structure and naming convention for the mp3 files: sometimes I think I should do folders by date that is the day that I added the mp3 (or set of mp3s) to the library (oh yes and maybe that can be my own internal ID) because I'm usually catalogueing very rare tracks like white label vinyls and unreleased material.
Maybe having a folder with the day I'm working on adding something (e.g. 2025_10_22) and then mp3s within that with whatever name is generated by tools such as yt-dlp? Maybe a json file for each song... ?? Wow it quickly starts to get a bit overwhelming.
Do you have any suggestions for keeping this project manageable and enjoyable? (and useful! - I guess the most useful part would be being able to go back to it each day and quickly seeing the work I had done the day before and being able to build on that... it would probably be good to have all the json files in a git repo but I guess I wouldn't want to store all the mp3 files... or would I? Would it make the size of the git db overwhelming?)